tests/performance/README.MD, before:

# Performance Test Framework

## Overview

This is an Performance Framework using JMeter to load test services within FtRS

## Project Structure

```
├── performance/
    ├── service
        ├── tests
        │   ├── parameter_files
        ├── test_plan.jmx
        ├── README.MD
```

## Prerequisites and Configuration

See those in the main README.MD


### Install jmeter

```shell

# In the performance directory
cd tests/performance
make install
```

## Test Configuration

### GUI setup
To be able to run a test plan from the GUI you will need to create a csv file called plan_params.csv that contains 3 data items
```
internal R53 endpoint address, APIM Env address , APIM API Key, kid name

example:
test.dev.domain.uk,int.api.service.nhs.uk,tr24234yyr2342,mykid
```

### Test setup

The files required to populate the test parameters will need to be copied down from the appropriate S3 bucket via the command, either from Main or the workspaced bucket
```
make download-workspace-performance-parameter-files

OR

make download-performance-parameter-files
```
Generate a pfx file by converting the crt and pem files.
You will be prompted to set a password for this file

```
openssl pkcs12 -export -in <cert name>>.crt -inkey <key name>>.pem -out <pfx name>.pfx

```

###
To load the GUI
```
jmeter
```

## Running the test plan

### From command line and sending a mtls pfx file

```
jmeter -n -t IS_Test_Plan.jmx -f -l result.jtl -e -o "report"  -J serviceendpoint=<endpoint> -D javax.net.ssl.keyStore="<full path to pfx file>" -D javax.net.ssl.keyStorePassword='<password for pfx file>'
```

To generate a dashboard report in the folder reports based on the result.jtl file generated when the test plan ran
```
jmeter -g result.jtl -f -e -o reports
```

Commit message:

DOSIS-1704 Initial work to make Jmeter generate a bearer token (#403)
* DOSIS-1703 Initial jmeter setup

* DOSIS-1703 Adding in the first test

* DOSIS-1703 Updating make and readme files

* DOSIS-1703 Updating param path

* DOSIS-1703 Removing stray api test change

* DOSIS-1704 Initial jwt jmeter setup

* DOSIS-1704 Updating the make file

* DOSIS-1704 Updating the make file

* DOSIS-1704 Updating the make file

* DOSIS-1704 Updating readme after review

* DOSIS-1704 Updating jmeer plan after review

* DOSIS-1704 Updating jmeter plan after review

* DOSIS-1704 Updating jmeter readme after review

* DOSIS-1704 Changing the method of parameter

* DOSIS-1704 Review comments done

* DOSIS-1704 Fixing a rebase issue

tests/performance/README.MD, after:

# Performance Test Framework

## Overview

This is an Performance Framework using JMeter to load test services within FtRS

## Project Structure

```
├── performance/
    ├── service
        ├── tests
        │   ├── parameter_files
        ├── test_plan.jmx
        ├── README.MD
```

## Prerequisites and Configuration

See those in the main README.MD


### Install jmeter

```shell

# In the performance directory
cd tests/performance
make install
```

## Test Configuration

### GUI setup
To be able to run a test plan from the GUI you will need to create a csv file called plan_params.csv that contains 4 data items. These 4 items are required to be able to run any of the test plans
```
internal R53 endpoint address, APIM Env address , APIM API Key, kid name

example:
test.dev.domain.uk,int.api.service.nhs.uk,tr24234yyr2342,mykid
```

### Test setup

The files required to populate the test parameters will need to be copied down from the appropriate S3 bucket via the command, either from Main or the workspaced bucket
```
make download-workspace-performance-parameter-files

OR

make download-performance-parameter-files
```
Generate a pfx file by converting the crt and pem files.
You will be prompted to set a password for this file

```
openssl pkcs12 -export -in <cert name>>.crt -inkey <key name>>.pem -out <pfx name>.pfx

```

###
To load the GUI
```
jmeter
```

## Running the test plan
Example parameter values:
PLAN_NAME = IS_Proxy_Test_Plan or IS_Test_Plan
SERVICEENDPOINT = test.dev.ftrs.cloud.nhs.uk
APIM_ENV = internal-dev
APIKEY = tr24234yyr2342
KID = my-kid

Store the pem file that corresponds to the APIKEY and KID in /parameter_files

### From command line and sending a mtls pfx file

```
jmeter -n -t IS_Test_Plan.jmx -f -l result.jtl -e -o "report"  -J serviceendpoint=<endpoint> -D javax.net.ssl.keyStore="<full paths to pfx file>" -D javax.net.ssl.keyStorePassword='<password for pfx file>'
```

### From command line and sending a request with a JWT token

The *Generate JWT Token - JSR223 PreProcessor* generates a JWT token based on the provided KID and API Key.
This is then passed to *Get Bearer Token* request a bearer token to be sent in the request header


```
jmeter -n -t IS_Proxy_Test_Plan.jmx -f -l result.jtl -e -o "report" -J apim_env=<apim_env>  -J apikey=<apikey> -J kid=<kid>
```

To generate a dashboard report in the folder reports based on the result.jtl file generated when the test plan ran
```
jmeter -g result.jtl -f -e -o reports
```
